//Programming is the process of writing instructions in a computer language.
//There are different types of programming languages — Low Level, High Level, Very High Level and AI languages.
//Machine language is a type of Low Level Language. It's the only language that computers can directly understand.
//Assembly languages use mnemonic codes. 
//An assembler is a program that converts assembly language into machine language.
//Assembly language is different from machine language as it uses mnemonics instead of 0s and 1s.
//High-Level Languages like C++, Java are very easy to learn and similar to the English language.
//Internet is the global network of billions of computers connected together.
//ARPANET gave rise to the Internet.
//The process of buying products over the internet is called online shopping.
//E-commerce stands for Electronic Commerce.
//Mail merge is a feature in MS Word that allows us to send the same letter to many people at different addresses.
//The Photo Album feature in PowerPoint allows us to insert a collection of photos into our presentation.
//The Ink Annotation feature in PowerPoint allows us to write or draw shapes using the mouse just like we draw with a pen on paper.
//F5 is the shortcut key to run the slide show.
//You can make your PowerPoint presentation more appealing by using pictures, adding animations, using a good colour combination and fonts.

Excel is a popular spreadsheet program that helps us organise and analyse data.

Excel stores data in a table-like grid having "rows" and "columns". 

Rows are horizontal lines marked by numbers. Columns are vertical and marked by letters. 

Excel helps us to organise data quickly. It also allows us to perform calculations on data. 

A complete Excel file is a workbook and different "pages" in the workbook are called worksheets. 

You can think of a workbook like a notebook, and worksheets like the pages of that notebook.

A cell is a rectangular box formed by the intersection of a row and column.

A group of cells selected together is called a range.

We can enter data in cells. The data can be text, numbers and formulas.

Each cell has a unique address and it can be used to refer to that cell when creating a formula. Example, A1, A2, etc.

A formula is an equation that we use to perform calculations in Excel. For example: =A1+B1

The Autofill feature of Excel allows us to fill cells with data automatically based on a pattern. Example, automatically filling the names of months (Jan, Feb etc) or writing roll numbers (1, 2, 3 etc).

Undo is used to reverse the last performed action, whereas redo is used to repeat the action which was undone. 


Python is a popular programming language used to create software applications.
Python was created by Guido van Rossum.
Python is simple to learn, free of cost and requires only a few lines of code.
Python programs are created in IDLE.
IDLE can work in two different modes: Interactive Mode and Script Mode.
In the interactive mode, statements are executed line by line, whereas in the script mode, the whole program is written and executed together.
When working in the script mode, we first need to save the program (Ctrl+S) and then run it (with the F5 key).
A variable is a named storage location in the computer memory.
A variable can hold any type of data: integers (numbers without decimals), floating numbers (numbers with a decimal part) and strings (words and text).
The integer data type contains positive or negative whole numbers (without a decimal part). E.g. 10, -5. Whereas, The float data type contains decimal numbers. E.g. 12.5, -5.2 etc.
Computer vision is the ability of computers to "see" something, and do a task like a human being. It is a part of Artificial Intelligence (AI).
Computer vision is used in self-driving cars, Google Lens, face recognition systems etc.
Computer vision works by looking at pictures or videos, understanding patterns and then performing an action.
A self-driving car uses cameras and sensors to see the road, understand it, and drive safely without a driver.
Google Lens can identify plants and animals from pictures. It can also translate text from one language to another by taking the picture of a document.
