//A number system is a way of representing quantities.
//The different types of number systems are: Binary, Octal, Decimal, and Hexadecimal number systems.
//The number of digits present in a number system is called the base of that number system. 
//The base of the binary number system is 2 while that of the decimal number system is 10.
//To convert a decimal number into its binary form, we divide the number by 2.
//The binary number system is important because it's the only number system that a computer understands.
//Any crime committed with computers or the internet is called a cybercrime. Examples: hacking, phishing, spamming etc.
//Cyber security means taking all measures and precautions to protect yourself from cybercrimes.
//Examples of cyber attacks include hacking, phishing, spamming, identity theft, cyberbullying etc.
//Hacking is the unauthorized access to someone else's computer to exploit or manipulate data.
//Phishing is an act of sending an email to a user, giving an impression that it is from a trusted person or organisation.
//Cyberbullying is using the internet to harass, threaten, or harm someone.
//To protect yourself from cybercrimes, i) Never click on links from unknown people, ii) Use strong passwords, and iii) Keep your antivirus updated.
//A strong password is long, unique, and includes a mix of letters, numbers, and symbols. It should not have guessable patterns like 123, abc etc.
//Cloud computing is the process of manipulating, configuring, and accessing online applications.
//Google Drive is a popular cloud storage service that allows you to store files online. It offers 15 GB of free storage.
A chart is an effective way to display data in a pictorial form.
Excel allows us to create different kinds of charts to better understand data: Column chart, bar chart, pie chart, line chart etc.
The chart area includes the entire chart, including titles and legends, whereas the plot area is the section where the actual data is shown with bars, lines etc.
The titles given to the X-Axis and Y-Axis are called axis titles.
The data values on the basis of which a chart is plotted are called "data series".
Sparklines are mini charts that fit into a single cell to show data trends at a glance.
A combo chart is a combination of two or more charts.
The sort feature of Excel helps you arrange the data either in ascending or descending order.
Python is a very popular programming language used to create computer programs and software.
Python is very easy to learn and user-friendly.
Python programs are written in the IDLE environment.
The IDLE environment can work in 2 different modes: Interactive mode and Script mode.
In the interactive mode, commands are written and executed one by one. You write a command, press the Enter key and get its ouput immediately on the next line.
In the script mode, the entite program is written as one single file and then saved. The program is run by pressing the shortcut key F5.
In Python, operators are symbols which are used to perform different operations on operands, such as addition, subtraction etc.
Conditional statements are used to change the flow of a program depending on the result of a condition. We can use if, if...else or if..elif..else constructs to evaluate conditions in Python.
HTML is a language used for creating webpages for the Internet.
In HTML, we have "tags", which tell the browser how to display a particular element. For example, <p>Some text</p> instructs the browser to display "Some text" as a paragraph.
Similarly, we have different tags for different things, like headings, images etc.
In HTML, we have six different tags to display headings in different font sizes. <H1> represents the largest heading whereas <H6> represents the smallest one.
CSS is a language used to style and format HTML elements. It is used along with HTML to change the look and feel of HTML elements.
CSS can be used to change the font size, alignment, colours or the background of elements.
NLP stands for Natural Language Processing. It is the process of making computers understand human languages.
NLP helps voice assistants like Alexa understand your commands.
NLP also helps in language translation.
Sentence segmentation is the process of breaking a paragraph into individual sentences.
Tokenisation is the process of breaking a sentence into individual words.
Stemming and lemmatisation are used to extract the base part of a word.
Stemming simplifies a word by removing any affixes. For example, the words "playing" and "played" are changed to just "play". Whereas, lemmatisation reduces a word to its proper base form while still keeping it accurate. For example, "sang" and "sung" are changed to "sing".
